Once in a while when I wake up
I find myself crying.
I can never recall
the dream I must have had.
But...
The sensation that I've lost something
lingers for a long time after I wake up.
I'm always searching
for something, for someone.
This feeling has possessed me,
I think, from that day...
That day when the stars came falling.
It was almost as if...
As if it were a scene from a dream.
Nothing more, nothing less
than a beautiful view.
Than a beautiful view.
How I wish our words travel
till the edge of the world
without vanishing
then what will those words be?
To make promises that won't fade
let's say it on the count of three
"Your wish may come true
to some degrees”
I no longer cannot see
the eyes of this saying
since when and why? I don't know
where the point rain starts and ends,
where the rainbow begins and ends
place where my life fades,
I've always believed that there is
something I've been chasing
one day we'll go
where all living creatures have never been,
unprecedented, unexplored sentiments
give them five and kiss your time away
5th dimension teases me
but I still see you
let's make our signal
how to say "nice to meet you"
and I chase your name
Taki. Taki.
Don't you remember me?
My name is...
Mitsuha!
Mitsuha, what are you doing?
Well, it feels incredibly realistic...
What? "Mitsuha"?
Are you half-asleep? Breakfast!
Hurry up!
What? What?
Do you want last night's leftovers?
You can have them.
Good morning. Good morning.
Mitsuha, you're late!
I'll make breakfast tomorrow.
Is this too much?
Oh, well.
You're normal today.
You were nuts yesterday.
What are you talking about?
Good morning, everyone.
This is an announcement
from ltomori town hall.
Regarding the mayoral election
to be held on the 20th next month,
the election committee...
"Comet to pass by in a month:
Visible to the naked eye"
"comet to pass by in a month: Visible to the naked eye" a comet
with an orbital period of 1,200 years will pass by in a month.
A comet with an orbital period
of 1,200 years will pass by in a month.
The comet will be visible
to the naked eye for several days...
Just make it up with him.
It's an adult matter.
"Position of comet tiamat"
ee
Jaxa is preparing to observe
the celestial show of the century.
We're going now!
Study hard!
Mitsuha!
Morning, Sayaka, Tessie.
Morning.
Get off. Why? Meanie.
You're heavy. That's rude.
You two get along so well.
We do not! We do not!
Your hair looks all right today.
What?
Yeah, did your grandma exorcise you?
Exorcise?
You were totally possessed!
Cut out the occult stuff.
Mitsuha is just stressed. Right?
Huh? What are you talking about?
You don't remember?
And above all,
restoring the town's fiscal health
to continue its revitalization project!
Only when these are achieved
can a safe and secure
community be created!
As the incumbent mayor...
He'll just be reelected again anyway.
I heard he's been dishing out the pork.
Hey, miyamizu.
Morning.
So the mayor's kid and
his contractor's kid get along, too.
Ew.
Mitsuha!
Stand up straight!
He's strict with his family.
I'm impressed.
So embarrassing.
Sucks to be her.
Mitsuha.
In front of everybody...
"Who are you?"
"Tasokare"
"tasokare" "tasokare" means "who is that" and
is the origin of the word "tasogare-doki."
"Tasokare" means "who is that" and is
the origin of the word "tasogare-doki."
Twilight, when it's neither day nor night.
When the world blurs and one might
encounter something not human.
Older expressions include " karetaso-doki"
"karetaso/kawatare = who is that?"
"Karetaso/kawatare = who is that?"
And "kawatare-doki."
Question! Not "kataware-doki"?
"Karetaso/kawatare = who is that?"
Kataware-doki?
I think that's a local dialect.
I've heard that itomori's elderly
still use classical language.
"Who are you?"
Eee lsees toor en ee res
"who are you?"
Okay, next: Mitsuha.
Yes!
Oh, so you remember your name today.
You don't remember?
Yesterday you forgot
where your desk and locker were.
You had bedhead and no ribbon.
What? No way! Really?
It was like you had amnesia.
Well, I do feel like I've been
in a strange dream lately...
A dream about someone else's life?
I can't remember clearly.
I know! That was...
Your previous life!
Or maybe your subconscious
linked to the Everett multiverse...
Stay out of this.
Oh! Tessie, did you
write that in my notebook?
Nothing.
But mitsuha, you really were
a bit weird yesterday.
You been feeling all right?
That's so strange. I feel fine.
Maybe it's stress.
That ritual is coming up, isn't it?
Oh, don't remind me!
I can't stand this town anymore.
It's too small and close-knit.
I want to graduate and go to Tokyo.
I don't blame you.
There's really nothing in this town.
Trains come every two hours.
The store closes at 9 P.M.
No bookstore. No dentist.
But two pubs for some reason.
"Mother's" "cat's eye pub"
no jobs.
No brides.
Short sunlight hours.
Give me a break! What?
I mean... how about we stop by a café?
A café? Really?
Where? Where?
Hello.
This is a café?
You knew there wasn't one.
Mitsuha just went home.
Things must be rough for her.
Well, she takes center stage.
Yeah.
Hey, Tessie.
What?
What will you do after you graduate?
What's this? You asking about my future?
Nothing special. I'll probably keep on
living a normal life in this town.
I'd rather do that, too.
You're not ready yet, yotsuha.
Listen to the thread's voice.
When you keep spooling like that,
emotions will eventually start flowing
between you and the thread.
Threads don't talk.
She means, "concentrate."
1,000 years of itomori's history
is etched into our braided cords.
Listen. 200 years ago...
Here she goes again.
Sandal maker mayugoro's bathroom caught
on fire and burned down this whole area.
The shrine and
old documents were destroyed
and this is known as...
The great fire of mayugoro.
The fire has his name? Poor mayugoro.
So we lost the meaning of our festivals,
and only the form lived on.
But even if words are lost,
tradition should be handed down.
That's the important task
we at miyamizu shrine have.
But that foolish son-in-law...
As if leaving shinto priesthood
and this house weren't enough,
now politics? He's hopeless.
Have another, my man.
I'm counting on your help again.
Leave it to me.
You'll get votes from the kadoiri
and sakagami districts.
How's it going with her?
It's not that easy.
I smell corruption.
Don't be ridiculous.
Bring us a few more hot saké.
Okay.
Katsuhiko, work on site this weekend.
Learn how to use explosives.
Can't hear you.
Yes!
We both have it rough, don't we?
Is that yotsuha? She's all grown up.
They're both pretty like their mother.
Hey.
It's the oldest saké in the world.
By chewing on rice, spitting it out,
and letting it ferment, it becomes alcohol.
"Kuchikamizake." do the gods
appreciate saké made that way?
Of course they do.
Hey, look. It's miyamizu.
Oh! I could never do that!
Isn't she embarrassed?
I can't believe it.
Cheer up, mitsuha. Who cares
if a few classmates saw you?
I envy your prepubescent lack of concern.
Why not sell lots of kuchikamizake
and use the money to go to Tokyo?
Where do you get such ideas?
Sell them with photos and making-of videos.
Name it "shrine maiden's saké."
You'll make money!
"Shrine maiden's saké"
no. That breaks the liquor tax law.
That's the problem?
I hate this town! I hate this life!
Please make me a handsome
Tokyo boy in my next life!
What a fool...
Ow!
Ouch...
Where...
Something's there...
Ow!
Taki! Are you up?
It was your turn to cook. Wake up on time.
I'm sorry.
I'm going now. Finish up the miso soup.
Okay.
Go to school even if you're late. See you.
Have a nice day.
What a strange dream.
"From tsukasa: Run, you're late!"
What? Who's it from? Tsukasa? Who's that?
I have to use the bathroom.
This is too realistic.
"Shinjuku station"
I'm in Tokyo!
"Jingu high school"
where'd you get it? Daikanyama.
The opening act at the next gig...
Let's skip club and go to a movie.
Taki!
Arriving at noon, huh? Let's eat lunch.
You ignored my text.
Oh, tsukasa?
At least you sound apologetic.
You got lost? Yeah.
How could you get lost
on the way to school?
Uh... well... I...
Feminine pronouns?
I!
I?
I was enjoying myself.
It's so festive and all in Tokyo.
You seem to have an accent.
Where's your lunch?
Geez. Are you half-asleep?
You got something?
Croquette-egg sandwich sounds good!
Thank you.
Let's go to the café after school.
Oh, that one? Okay. Coming, taki?
What? What? What?
A café?
Nice timberwork up there.
Yeah, attention to detail.
Taki, have you decided?
What? I could live for a month
for the price of these!
What era are you from again?
Hmm. Oh, well. It is a dream.
What a great dream.
Oh no, what should I do? I'm late for work!
Your shift is today?
Go, then. Oh, yeah.
Oh! Um...
Where do I work?
What? What?
Tables 6, 7, and 10 are waiting!
Table 12! Taki!
Here you go.
Uh, zucchini and tomato salad...
We didn't order that.
Taki, I said we're out of truffles!
Taki, can't hear youl!
Taki!
When is this dream going to end?
Hey. Hey, waiter.
Oh, yes?
There was a toothpick in our pizza.
We could have gotten hurt.
Good thing I noticed.
What do you have to say?
Uh, well...
But... there are no toothpicks
in an Italian restaurant's...
Excuse me.
Is everything okay?
I'll handle this.
What's wrong with you today?
Please accept our apologies.
Your meal is on the house.
Oh, really?
I hope you weren't hurt.
Um...
Okudera...
Ms. okudera.
Ms. okudera. Thank you...
A stroke of bad luck today.
No, uh...
Bet it was a set-up.
Handled it according to the manual, but...
Oh, Ms. okudera, your skirt!
You okay?
What happened? Slashed.
That dick from earlier?
What now? Do you remember his face?
No.
Come with me.
Hey, taki!
Take off your skirt.
Oh! I'll look the other way!
This won't take long.
Done!
Wow, taki! It looks better than before!
Thank you for saving me today.
Actually, I was concerned about you.
You're weak but quick-tempered.
I like you better today.
Never knew you had a feminine side.
"Jr yamanote line: 7 min."
What a realistic dream,
if I do say so myself.
Oh, he keeps a diary.
He's so organized.
Wish I lived in Tokyo, too.
Oh! That's her!
A crush, maybe?
"Walked to the station with Ms. okudera
after work, thanks to my feminine powers!"
"Who are you?"
"Mitsuha"
What is this?
. ° what is this? =
meee ee sero es tae es
"mitsuha"
wha...? Wha...?
"Thanks to my feminine powers!"
Let's hit a café again today.
Sorry, I have to go to work.
Do you remember where to go?
Tsukasa, was it you who pranked my phone?
Oh, never mind. See you.
He's acting normal today.
Yesterday he was kind of cute.
What?
Wha... what?
Taki, you tried to outdo us!
You walked home with her!
Did I really? With Ms. okudera?
What happened afterwards?
I don't really remember.
Oh, really, now?
Okudera, coming through!
Hi, guys. Hello.
Let's make this a good one.
Right, taki?
"Mitsuha? Who are you? What are you?"
Breakfast is ready! Hurry up!
Boobs?
Morning.
Why is everyone staring at me?
Well, you made quite a scene yesterday.
Huh?
"Still-life drawing"
did you see the election posters?
Doesn't matter who wins. It's all about
how to serve up the grants.
Shh! Someone's livelihood depends on it.
They mean me, right?
Well, yeah.
Hey, mitsuhal!
Wha...? Wha...? I did what?
Mitsuha?
"What is this life?!"
Ae re et 2 ee ee fess lil sgmsesswa
ee sses age coe rrp fans frei see
is this... could it be...
Could it be that we're really...
In our dreams, that guy and I are...
In our dreams, that girl and I are...
"Life in Tokyo" "what is this life?!"
Switching places?
I'm beginning to get what's going on.
Taki is a boy my age living in Tokyo.
I switch with mitsuha at random,
a few times a week, unexpectedly.
Sleep triggers it. The cause is a mystery.
"Condition: Sleep? Cause: Unknown"
sleep triggers it. The cause is a mystery.
"condition: Sleep? Cause: Unknown" my memory
of the switch is hazy after I wake up.
My memory of the switch
is hazy after I wake up.
But we're definitely switching places.
It's obvious from the reactions
of the people around us. So...
So we laid down some rules
to protect each other's lifestyles.
"No baths! No looking! No touching!" So we laid
down some rules to protect each other's lifestyles.
"No baths! No looking! No touching!"
"No baths! No looking! No touching!" Things to watch
out for during the switch, and a list of "don'ts."
Things to watch out for during
the switch, and a list of "don'ts."
“Don't waste money!
No dialect! Don't be late!"
Ee te ee ne st pei ss s sees ee ot
ess er a ee eer es err rrs tns ===
we also agreed to leave reports
in our smartphones.
To work together to tide over
this mysterious phenomenon.
But...
That girl! That guy!
Guys are staring! Watch the skirt!
Come on, this is basic!
Stop wasting my money!
It's your body eating.
And I'm working, too!
"Braided cords..."
Braided cords... I can't do this!
You work too many shifts!
It's 'cause you waste money!
Grabbed coffee with Ms. okudera.
You two have a good thing going!
Mitsuha, stop changing my relationships!
Taki, why is a girl in love with me?
You're more popular when I'm you.
Don't be so full of yourself!
Not like you have a girlfriend!
"Don't be so full of yourself!"
You don't have a boyfriend!
I'm single because I want to be!
I shouldn't... for her sake.
You sure do like your boobs.
We're going now! Get ready!
Comet tiamat has been visible
to the naked eye for a few days now.
When and where can it be seen?
2 sear AAA San
esse saas aes == =
"comet tiamat to reach perigee"
cc I ep ae a merle PR in ae te = er ee ee aim az ts toe ta
en on a ee ee oe ee ee es rr re a sme or mer ee ne a ee
comet tiamat is moving from
east to west as if to follow the sun.
So it can be seen above Venus...
Why the uniform?
Grandma, why is the vessel
of our shrine's god so far away?
I don't know, thanks to mayugoro.
Who's that?
What? He's famous!
Here, grandma.
Whoa, mitsuha.
Mitsuha, yotsuha, do you know "musubi"?
Musubi?
Musubi is the old term
for calling the local guardian deity.
This word has profound meaning.
Tying thread is musubi.
Connecting people is musubi.
The flow of time is musubi.
These are all the god's power.
So the braided cords that we make
are the god's art,
and represent the flow of time itself.
They converge and take shape.
They twist, tangle,
sometimes unravel,
break, then connect again.
Musubi: Knotting. That's time.
Drink.
Thank you.
I want some, too!
That's also musubi.
Whether it be water, rice, or saké,
when a person consumes something
and it joins their soul, that's musubi.
So today's offering
is an important custom
that connects the god and its people.
Hey, I see it!
That's the vessel of miyamizu shrine's god?
Beyond this point is the "kakuriyo."
It means the underworld.
I'm in the underworld!
In exchange for returning to this world,
you must leave behind
what is most important to you.
The kuchikamizake.
The kuchikamizake?
You'll offer it inside the god's vessel.
It's half of you.
Half of mitsuha...
It's twilight already... "Kataware-doki."
Kataware-doki?
Oh, yeah,
maybe we can see the comet.
The comet?
Oh?
Mitsuha,
you're dreaming right now, aren't you?
Tears? Why?
"I'm almost there. Looking forward to it!"
Ms. okudera? What's she talking about?
What did mitsuha do this time?
A date?
A date with Ms. okudera tomorrow!
Meet at 10:30 A.M. at the station!
Or so I'd planned, but...
Taki.
Sorry. Did you wait long?
Yes. No...
Um...
I just got here.
Good. Let's go.
He's so lucky. They must
be together right about now...
Huh?
Why?
I wanted to go on this date,
but if it so happens that you
end up going, you better enjoy it!
However, I'm sure you've never
gone out on a date before...
I don't know what to say...
So below are some links
to help you out, you late bloomer.
Really?
"You, too, can get a girlfriend!"
"Despite social anxiety, I got a girl!
The dos and don'ts of texting"
she's making fun of me.
Eet re ea I
"photo exhibition: Nostalgia"
Taki...
You're like a different person today.
Um, Ms. okudera. Are you hungry?
How about dinner?
Let's call it a day.
Yes.
Taki, you... sorry if I'm wrong.
You used to have
a bit of a crush on me, right?
But now you like someone else.
No I don't!
Really?
No! That's not true at all.
I wonder.
Oh, well. Thanks for today.
See you at work.
By the time the date is over,
the comet will be visible in the sky.
What is she saying?
"Mitsuha miyamizu"
Oh, it's you, Tessie.
No, I just didn't feel like going,
that's all. I'm fine.
What? The festival? Well...
Oh, yeah, the comet. Today's the peak
of its brightness, isn't it?
Okay, got it. Later, then.
You just want to see her in a yukata.
What?! No!
That didn't even occur to me.
Hey, she sounded kind of down.
Maybe you annoyed her.
Come on!
Sorry I'm late.
Here she is! Finally!
Your... your...
Oh! What happened, mitsuha?
Your hair!
Looks kinda funny, huh.
You think some guy
is the reason? Ditched, maybe?
Why do guys associate
cutting hair with breakups?
She said she just felt like it.
Really? She just felt like
cutting off that much hair?
Oh! Hey! You can see it!
Wow!
The phone you are trying to reach
is out of range or has been turned off...
“I'll tell her about the disastrous date
the next time we switch,"
I thought. But...
For some reason, after that,
mitsuha and I
never switched places again.
"Mountains in gifu prefecture"
"Hida mountains"
What the... what are you doing here?
Tsukasa told me and here I am!
Tsukasa, I asked you to
cover for me at home and at work.
Takagi will cover your shift.
Leave it to me! But you owe me a meal!
This isn't funny.
We were worried about you. Huh?
You can't go alone. What if it's a con act?
A con act?
You're meeting an online friend, right?
Well, no, not exactly...
I think he's using a dating site.
No!
You've been acting weird lately.
We'll keep an eye on you.
I'm not a kid!
The switching stopped.
My calls and texts didn't go through.
So I decided
to go see mitsuha in person.
I wanted to meet her. But...
What? You don't know where?
The town's scenery is your only clue?
Yes.
And you can't contact her?
What's this all about?
Seriously. What a lousy tour planner.
I didn't plan any tour!
Oh, well. We'll help you look for her.
Oh, how cute! Look!
So annoying.
Oh, it moved!
So it's impossible after all...
What? After all the trouble
we went through?
You haven't done anything.
A takayama ramen.
Oh, then a takayama ramen.
Okay. Three ramens. Okay.
Can we return to Tokyo today?
We could be cutting it close. I'll check.
Thanks.
Are you all right with that?
I'm starting to feel like
I'm barking up the wrong tree.
Why, young man, that's itomori, isn't it?
It's a very good drawing. Isn't it, dear?
Yeah, it's itomori. Brings back memories.
He was born in itomori.
Itomori...?
Yes! Itomori town!
That's it! It's nearby, isn't it?
What are you... ltomori was...
Itomori? No way!
Is it where that comet...?
"Keep out"
Hey. Is this really the place?
No way! Taki must be misremembering.
No. I'm sure this is it.
This schoolyard. The mountains.
I remember this high school clearly!
That can't be true!
Surely you remember that disaster
three years ago, where hundreds died?
Died?
Died, three years ago?
That can't be.
I still have the notes
that she left behind...
They're disappearing...
Comet tiamat, with an
orbital period of 1,200 years,
ee ee inca mt oe nr in sl ra
"itomori, the town that vanished"
nobody could predict that its nucleus
would split at its perigee.
"Meteor strikes, wipes out town" nobody could predict
that its nucleus would split at its perigee.
Nobody could predict that its nucleus
would split at its perigee.
"Town annihilated"
"over 500 dead or missing"
"itomori, the town that vanished"
a fragment of the comet
became a meteor that struck Japan.
A fragment of the comet
"Itomori, comet, damage"
"itomori, comet, damage"
it was the day of the Autumn festival.
It was the day of the Autumn festival.
The point of impact was here.
At 8:42 P.M., it struck where people
were gathered for the festival.
"Names of the victims"
ee oe I ee = se re re ee ce ee eira
re eee eee ee ee ar =f ff = =f
over 500 people died,
a third of the town's population,
and now nobody
lives in itomori anymore.
"Mitsuha miyamizu"
"mitsuha miyamizu"
that's her?
It has to be some kind of mistake.
This person died three years ago!
Just two, three weeks ago, she said to me
that the comet would be visible!
So...
You're dreaming right now...
Aren't you?
What did I...?
Lively up there.
I'm sorry we could only get one room.
No problem.
How's taki?
He's still reading articles on itomori.
Newspapers and magazines
from back then, whatever he can find.
What?
Nothing. I didn't know you smoked.
Oh. I had quit, but...
What do you think about taki's story?
I liked him.
The way he was recently. He was always
a nice guy, but even more so lately.
Like he was trying so hard. It was cute.
What he's saying
doesn't make sense to me...
But I'm sure he met someone,
and that someone changed him.
That much is for sure, I think.
"Worst-ever itomori comet disaster"
that much is for sure, I think.
It was all just a dream.
I recognized the scenery because
I remembered the news from three years ago.
If not that, then... a ghost?
No... was I delusional?
Her name... what was it?
Tsukasa went to take a bath.
Oh, Ms. okudera. I, uh...
I've been saying such strange things.
Thank you for coming along today.
No problem.
Sere ames ee
"the tatara iron-making site"
"the braided cords of ltomori"
"the braided cords of itomori"
braided cords. How pretty.
Is that a braided cord you're wearing?
Oh, this... I think someone
gave it to me a long time ago.
I wear it sometimes
as kind of a lucky charm...
Who was it?
Why don't you go take a bath, too?
Yes. No.
Someone who makes
braided cords once told me...
The cords represent
the flow of time itself.
The threads twist, tangle, unravel,
and connect again. That's time...
Maybe at that place...
"Around here?"
Taki.
Don't you remember me?
"I have to go somewhere. Go back to Tokyo
without me. I'll return later. Thanks."
Taki...
Eat this up there.
Your drawing of itomori... it was good.
They converge and take shape.
They twist, tangle,
sometimes unravel, then connect again...
Musubi: Knotting. That's time.
There it is!
It's really there!
It wasn't just a dream!
Beyond this is the underworld.
It's the saké we brought.
This is yotsuha's, and this is mitsuha's.
Before the comet struck... so the mitsuha
I know is from three years ago?
Our timelines were out of step.
Half of her...
Musubi.
If time can really be turned back,
give me one last chance...
A comet!
Your name is mitsuha.
You're both my treasures.
You're a big sister now.
"Get well soon, mom."
I'm so sorry, my dears.
Dad, when is mom going to come home?
I couldn't save her.
Get a hold of yourself!
Who cares about the shrine?
You're the adopted son-in-law!
I loved my wife futaba.
Not miyamizu shrine!
Get out of here!
Mitsuha, yotsuha,
you'll be with grandma from now on.
Who am 1? No, who are you?
"Fool"
mm seers sema x
fr sacameay eissn
don't be so full of yourself.
Not like you have a girlfriend!
He's so lucky.
They must be together right about now...
I'm going to Tokyo.
What? Hey, mitsuha!
Grandma, could you do me a favor?
Oh, yeah, the comet.
Today's the peak of its brightness...
Mitsuha! Don't stay there!
Mitsuha, get out of there
before the comet strikes!
Mitsuha, get out of there!
Mitsuha! Mitsuha!
Mitsuha!
I'm mitsuha! She's still alive!
Mitsuha, are you touching...
My sister!
Yotsuhal!
Mitsuha has finally lost it.
I'm leaving without her.
She's lost it.
She's completely lost it.
Scary.
Comet tiamat has been visible
to the naked eye for a few days now.
Tonight it will finally reach
its perigee around 7:40 P.M.,
and will achieve its maximum brightness.
It's tonight. There's still time.
Good morning, mitsuha.
Oh...
You're not mitsuha, are you?
You knew, grandma?
No, but watching the way you've behaved
lately triggered some memories.
I also remember having
strange dreams when I was a young girl.
Although now I've forgotten
whose life I was dreaming about.
Forgotten...
Treasure the experience.
Dreams fade away after you wake up.
Your mother and I
both went through similar phases.
Maybe those dreams
that the miyamizu family had
were all for what will happen today.
Grandma, listen.
A comet will strike itomori tonight
and everyone will die!
"Nobody will believe that"? What a
surprisingly ordinary reply, grandma.
I won't let them die!
Oh! What happened, mitsuha?
Your... your hair!
Oh, this. It looked better before, huh?
That's it?
Forget that! If nothing is done,
everyone will die tonight!
So we have to act!
Why aren't you at school?
Uh... we have to save the town.
The community wireless system?
Yeah, those speakers you see everywhere.
"Superimposition, frequency"
yeah, those speakers you see everywhere.
I see! That could work!
You're awesome, Tessie!
Hey! Not so close!
What, embarrassed? Hey, hey!
Stop! You're a girl of marriageable age!
"Club discontinued - keep out"
"club discontinued - keep out”
you're such a nice guy!
Got them. Here's your change.
Sorry, Sayaka.
It's all right.
What a cheap fee. Deal with it.
What about you? Have you
come up with an escape plan?
What? A bomb?
We have water gel explosives
for construction at our storage site.
Broadcast hijacking?
The town's wireless system can be
hijacked easily with the startup frequency.
So we can broadcast
an evacuation warning from the school.
The school is outside the disaster area,
so people can evacuate here.
It's... it's totally a crime!
You do the broadcast.
Why?
You're in the broadcast club.
I'm in charge of explosives.
I'll go talk to the mayor.
In the end, the city council
has to evacuate everyone.
I'm his daughter. I can persuade him.
It's a perfect plan.
Oh, whatever. It's just
a what-if fantasy, isn't it?
What? Well...
Not necessarily! Do you know
how lake itomori was formed?
"a meteor crater lake
formed 1,200 years ago."
"A meteor crater lake formed 1,200 years ago." It's a meteor
crater! So one did strike this area a thousand years ago!
It's a meteor crater! So one did
strike this area a thousand years ago!
Oh! So that's why...
You're right, Tessie!
Let's do this together!
What on earth are you talking about?
I said, we have to evacuate
everyone in town before tonight or...
Shut your mouth.
"The comet will split and strike the town"?
"Itomori town hall"
"the comet will split and strike the town"?
"over 500 people will die"?
How dare you spout such nonsense?
If you're serious, then you're sick.
Madness must be from the miyamizu side.
I'll get someone to drive you
to a hospital in the city.
I'll listen to you
after a doctor examines you.
You son of a...!
Mitsuha! No...
Who...
Who are you?
See you later at the festival.
Let's meet at the shrine.
Don't be late. Bye!
See you. Later.
Don't go!
Get out of town. Tell your friends!
What are you saying?
Mitsuha! What was that?
Let's go. What was that?
What are you doing?
Could mitsuha...
Could she have persuaded them?
Is it my fault?
Yotsuha, leave town
with grandma before nightfall.
You'll die if you stay here!
What are you saying?
Yesterday you suddenly went to Tokyo.
What's wrong with you?
Tokyo?
Hey, mitsuhal!
How did it go with your old man?
Hey, mitsuha?
What's wrong with her?
No idea.
Are you there?
Is something over there?
Let me use your bike.
Hey, what the...
Hey, mitsuhal!
What about our plan?
Get ready as planned!
Please!
I'm taki again.
What's taki doing here?
The town...
Is gone.
At that moment... did I...
Die?
Taki. Taki.
Don't you remember me?
I'm going to Tokyo.
What? Now?
Why?
A date.
You have a boyfriend in Tokyo?
Not my date.
I'll come home tonight.
If I suddenly showed up,
would I bother him? Surprise him?
He might not like it.
The phone you are trying to reach
is out of range or...
There's no way we could meet.
But what if we did?
What should I do? Would I annoy him?
Would it be awkward?
"Tiamat makes closest approach tomorrow" what should
I do? Would I annoy him? Would it be awkward?
"Tiamat makes
closest approach tomorrow"
"tiamat makes
or maybe...
He'd be a bit glad to see me?
The phone you are trying to reach
is out of range or...
There's no way we could meet.
But...
One thing is certain.
If we see each other, we'll know.
That you were the one who was inside me.
That I was the one who was inside you.
I'm sorry.
Excuse me.
That time three years ago,
before I got to know you...
Taki.
Um... it's me.
Don't you remember me?
Who are you?
I'm sorry.
But he's taki.
Weird girl.
Hey!
What's your name?
Mitsuha!
My name is mitsuha!
That time three years ago, you came...
To see me!
Taki?
Mitsuha!
You're here, aren't you? Inside my body!
Taki!
Taki, where are you?
It's mitsuha.
I can hear her, but...
Taki, where are you?
Taki!
Taki, are you...
There?
It's twilight.
Mitsuha.
Taki.
Taki. It's really you.
Taki!
I came to see you.
It wasn't easy.
You were so far away.
But how? At that moment, I...
I drank your kuchikamizake.
You drank that?
You idiot! Pervert!
Oh, yeah, and you touched my boobs!
How do you know that?
Yotsuha saw it.
Oh! Sorry, I couldn't help it!
It was just once.
Just once?
Doesn't matter how many times! Jerk.
Sorry.
Oh, this...
Oh. Really, why'd you
come see me before I knew you?
There's no way I'd recognize you.
Here. I kept it for three years.
Now you keep it.
Yes.
How is it?
Not bad.
You're lying!
No, I... sorry.
You're just so...!
Mitsuha, you still
have things to do. Listen.
It's coming.
Don't worry. You've still got time.
Yes, I'll try.
Kataware-doki is almost...
Over.
Hey, mitsuha. So we don't
forget when we wake up...
Let's write our names on each other. Here.
Okay!
Mitsuha?
Hey, mitsuha?
I wanted to tell you.
Wherever you are in the world,
I'll come find you.
Your name is mitsuha.
It's okay. I remember.
Mitsuha. Mitsuha. Mitsuha.
Your name is mitsuha.
Your name is...
Who are you?
Why did I come here?
I came here to see her.
To save her. I wanted her to be alive.
Who was it? Who? Who did I come to see?
Someone dear to me. I don't
want to forget. I shouldn't forget!
Who? Who? Who? Who?
What's your name?
Taki. Taki. Taki.
It's okay. I remember. I'll never forget!
Taki. Taki.
Your name is taki!
"Itomori substation"
Tessie!
Mitsuha! Where've you been?
He said sorry for breaking your bike.
[Huh? Who did? I did.
Explain everything to me later.
That's going to fall? Really?
Yes! Saw it with my own eyes!
What? You saw it, huh?
Then I guess we got no choice.
Now we're both criminals!
"Broadcasting room"
ee
What? I really have to do it?
When the town's power goes out,
the equipment there should work on backup.
Please, Sayaka!
Repeat it as much as you can!
Woo-hoo! You can do it!
Oh, to heck with it!
Soon, you think? I have no idea!
What was that? What's that sound?
Hey, look!
This is itomori town hall.
An explosion
has occurred at the substation.
There is a danger of further
explosions and forest fires.
Residents in the following areas,
please evacuate to itomori high school.
Kadoiri district, sakagami district...
The broadcast isn't from here?
Who is it, then?
Miyamori district...
Oyazawa district...
Let's go, mitsuhal!
Tessie!
Run, everybody! Forest fire!
Forest fire! Please evacuate!
Run! Fire!
It's not safe here! Please evacuate!
We don't have enough time! Mitsuha!
What's wrong?
His name... I can't remember his name!
Look, how should I know?
You started all this!
We can't evacuate
everyone by ourselves!
Go persuade your father!
Everybody run! Go to the high school!
Oh, mitsuha.
It's no terrorist attack!
What's chubu electric saying?
They're still checking!
No forest fire yet? Are you sure?
Okay!
Stop this broadcast!
Figure out where it's coming from!
The takayama sensor station called!
The high school?
Again, residents in the following areas,
evacuate to itomori high sch... oh!
What are you doing? Turn that off!
Sayaka!
Oh, no.
What have you done, Sayaka?
This is itomori town hall.
We are currently looking into the accident.
Please don't panic. Stay where you are
and await further instructions.
Stay put, they said.
What's going on? So we stay put?
Come on, you should all evacuate!
The high school is the shelter!
Katsuhiko!
What are you doing?
Sorry, mitsuha.
It's over.
It really is splitting apart!
Look at that! - Wow!
Look! The comet has split in two
and meteors are falling!
Nobody predicted this.
We have a really mystical sight here.
So the comet's nucleus split?
Did tidal forces affect...
The comet isn't within the roche limit,
so the nucleus itself must have...
In the past, comet shoemaker-Levy 9
broke and collided with Jupiter in 1994.
At least 21 fragments...
I'm going to go look!
They will probably melt
before reaching the ground
and the probability of a meteor crashing
into a residential area is small...
To predict the trajectory...
To be witnessing such
a magnificent celestial event, and...
How fortunate it is
that those of us living in this
day and age are watching this live.
Hey. Who are you?
Who? Who?
Who is that?
Someone dear to me. I shouldn't forget.
I didn't want to forget!
Who? Who? Who are you?
What's your name?
It's split!
So we don't forget when we wake up,
let's write our names on each other.
"I love you"
I can't remember your name with this...
Dad!
Mitsuha! Mitsuha!
Not you again...
It was almost as if
it were a scene from a dream.
Nothing more, nothing less
than a beautiful view.
What am I doing here?
I'm always searching for something.
This feeling has
possessed me for some time.
I applied because...
The landscapes people live in...
To build a city's landscape...
You never know when Tokyo
might disappear as well.
So I want to help build landscapes
that leave heartwarming memories...
How many interviews have you had?
I haven't kept track.
Can't see you landing a job.
Thanks a lot!
Maybe it's the suit.
We're not that different!
1 have two job offers.
1 have eight.
"Line: You have a new message."
Even I'm not sure if I'm searching
for a person or a place,
or if I'm just searching for a job.
Oh, you're job-hunting.
I haven't had much luck.
Maybe it's the suit.
Does it look that bad?
What brings you here today?
I was out here for work
and figured I'd say hi.
Rr - ammizrmalt==-=sss=x==sw
meee ns fr ef sse f ers ssns
"8 years since the comet disaster"
we went to ltomori once, didn't we?
We went to ltomori once, didn't we?
You were still in high school, so it was...
Five years ago. That long?
Seems like I've forgotten a lot.
I, too, no longer remember
much from back then.
Maybe we had a disagreement; The other
two returned to Tokyo without me.
I spent the night alone on some mountain.
That's about all I remember.
But at one point, I was inexplicably drawn
to the events surrounding that comet.
Half of a comet destroyed
a town in that disaster.
"Evacuation of residents
to high school grounds confirmed"
"evacuation of residents
to high school grounds confirmed”
to high school grounds confirmed"
"evacuation of residents
to high school grounds confirmed”
the entire town happened to be
holding an emergency drill
"an unprecedented natural disaster" the entire
town happened to be holding an emergency drill
"an unprecedented natural disaster"
"an unprecedented natural disaster" and most
of its residents were outside the blast zone.
And most of its residents
were outside the blast zone.
"Disaster foretold?"
Ee ee
the sheer luck and coincidence
sparked various rumors.
A mame ea tr = eee sr rasa s ears ena ers ce re ee tr rt te tr
se eae aea ae a AAA ties atefaat Tate ee a cm meee ee be ce a a”
"mayor miyamizu's hidden agenda"
I read those articles intently back then.
"Mysterious explosion at the substation”
What had caught my interest
so much then is now a mystery to me.
I didn't even know anybody in that town.
Thanks for today. This is far enough.
You'll find your happiness someday, too.
I feel like I'm always searching
for something, for someone.
"Construction company job interview"
I want to go to another bridal fair.
They're all the same.
Shinto-style is nice, too.
You wanted a wedding in a chapel.
Oh, and Tessie.
Lose the beard before the wedding.
I'll lose three kilos.
You're eating cake.
I'll start tomorrow.
"Itomori, the town that vanished"
"October 4, 2013 - itomori vanished."
"Kadoiri bridge"
"itomori elementary school"
"miyamizu shrine"
why does the scenery
of a town that no longer
exists wring my heart so?
Just a bit more, a little bit more,
would you...
let's stick together
just a bit more, a little bit more,
would you...
Just a bit more, a little bit more,
let's stick together
I was always searching...
Let's stick together
let's stick together
searching...
For someone!
We are time-flyer, we are time-climber
don't wanna be lost in its hide-and-seek
I won't let you go, won't never let it go
my hand finally overtook you
you're a loud cryer, wish I could stop ya
but when I saw your tears
I knew I was refused
you cry when you're happy
you laugh when you're sad
because your heart overtook you
Hey!
Haven't we met?
I thought so, too!
Your name is...?
The wind that passed between us
where did it bring the sorrow from?
The sky we looked up crying
was kind of awfully clear
Usually harsh words of my father
felt somehow warm today
not knowing how to be kind
or smile or talk about dreams
I had to imitate you all
just a bit more, a little bit more,
would you...
Just a bit more, a little bit more,
let's stick together
we are time-flyer, we are time-climber
don't wanna be lost in its hide-and-seek
you cry when you're happy
you laugh when you're sad
because your heart overtook you
The toy I used to wish for upon the stars
is left lying on the floor
at the corner of my room
I made my hundredth wish today
I will trade them all to one thing some day
Talked to a girl who's usually silent
"see ya" I said after school
it's nice for a change to break your habit
especially when you are next to me
just a bit more, a little bit more,
would you...
Just a bit more, a little bit more,
stick together
we are time-flyer, I knew who you are
long before even I learned my name
there must be a meaning
to the world without you
but the world without you
is like August with no summer break
like Santa claus with no ho-ho-ho's
how pitiful if such were the world
We are time-flyer, we are time-climber
don't wanna be lost in its hide-and-seek
it's really nothing,
yeah it's really nothing
I'm on my way
we are time-flyer, we are time-climber
don't wanna be lost in its hide-and-seek
you're a loud cryer, wish I could stop ya
but when I saw your tears
I knew I was refused
I cry when I'm happy
I laugh when I'm sad
because my heart overtook me